• Project Description 
Your project will simulate a simple web application (PSUT Announcements & News Portal) with four core 
pages: Welcome page, Login Page, Registration Page, and Announcements & News Page.  
The requirements are as follows: 
•       Core Requirements (15 Marks) 
On all of the following pages, apply responsive design, appropriate colors, fonts, and spacing to enhance the overall 
design, you have full creative freedom for the design. 
o Welcome Page (2 Marks) 
Design an attractive welcome page with static content to describe the purpose of the portal with link to the  
login page. 
o Registration Page (5 Marks) 
1. The registration page must include a form with the following mandatory fields for (username, email,  
school (DDL), password, confirm password). 
2. Using HTML and JS, validate user inputs (ensuring fields are not empty, password complexity,  
email format). 
3. Using JS, Add a Show Password feature. 
4. Using JS, Check the password and confirm password match before submission. 
5. Check if the entered username is already taken during registration. 
If it is, display a proper and secure error message. 
6. Save the user's submitted information to the database. 
7. Store passwords securely using hashing with salt. 
8. On successful registration, redirect the user to the login page. 
o Login Page (5 Marks) 
1. The login page should include a form with fields for username and password. 
2. Include link to the registration page. 
3. Include link to back to the welcome page. 
4. Using JS, add a Show Password feature. 
5. Authenticate the user using the stored credentials. 
6. Initiate and handle the session. 
7. Redirect to the Announcements & News Page on success, or display a proper and secure error  
message on failure. 
King Hussein School for Information Technology Department of Cyber Security 
Secure Web Design and Development 
Spring Semester: 2024/2025 
Project 
o Announcements & News Page (3 Marks) 
1. Design a page to show the PSUT Announcements & News (static content) in an attractive way. 
2. At the top of this page, show the logged in username. 
3. Include Texts, images and videos.  
4. Include logout button to terminate the user's session and redirect them to the login page. 
•       Additional Requirements for Group of Two (5 Marks) 
o Server-Side Validation: Revalidate all form inputs on the server side. (2.5 Marks) 
o Two-Factor Authentication: Implement an additional layer of security by requiring the user to verify 
their identity via a second authentication step. (2.5 Marks) 
•       Additional Requirements for Group of Three (5 Marks) 
o Server-Side Validation: Revalidate all form inputs on the server side. (1.5 Marks) 
o Two-Factor Authentication: Implement an additional layer of security by requiring the user to verify 
their identity via a second authentication step. (1.5 Marks) 
o Blocking Mechanism: implement a blocking mechanism to block the user for 5 minutes after 3  
failed login attempts. (2 Marks) 
•      Technologies to Use 
o Frontend: HTML, CSS, JavaScript. 
o Backend: PHP. 
o Database: MySQL. 
•        Deadline  
14 May, 2025 11:59 PM. (Note that, for every day late, 5 marks will be deducted from the total score) 
•     Submission Checklist 
1. Zip file: All project files (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, SQL) are compressed into a single zip 
file named like (Firstname_ID.zip) for submission, for group submission the group leader 
should submit the file on behalf of his team. 
2. Project documentation: including team leader, team members, their details, and 
responsibilities. Briefly describe your work methodology and how the application works, as 
well as screenshots walking through the application, showing each required 
page/functionality. 